## RChemophyically-Informed Population Balance Models of Cocrystalization  

**Summary**

This letter presents the development of a chemically and physically informed population balance model (PBM) for accurately simulating the cocrystallization process, with a focus on the binary mixture of ibuprofen and nicotinamide. By incorporating dynamics in particle interactions through the integration of dissipative particle dynamics (DPD), the models would address a critical limitation in traditional PBMs, which often overlook the temporal and spatial variability of particle interactions. The models would account for the formation and dissociation of homomers and heteromers, key processes in cocrystallization, and provide a comprehensive analysis of the associated birth and death events. 

In population balance modelling methods, the change in population of each particle i (Ni) obeys the continuity law, ∂Ni/∂t + ∂Ni/∂x,y,z = Bi - Di, where t is time and Bi and Di are summation of all associated production (birth) and consumption (death) events under various mechanisms. In order to include the birth and death events, a wide variety of highly sophisticated mathematical expressions, known as kernel functions, have been empirically developed, which however are applicable to a limited range of conditions and are not transferable. In recent literature, the utilization of first-principle data in building population balance models has been noted and implemented in LAMMPS, neglecting proper incorporation of dynamics in particle interactions. Such exclusion of dynamics on particle interactions, therefore, means that reacting/interacting particles are always at near neighbourhoods and reaction between particles is always granted, which is not physically consistent. 
This letter, therefore, explores the dynamics-inclusive kinetics of particle interactions, and elaborate it for equimolar cocrystalization process of ibuprofen and nicotinamide via holt melt extrusion. 

In a binary mixture of ibuprofen (B) and nicotinamide (A), three main distinctive 2-body elementary molecular processes can be realized resulting in new molecular combinations (equivalent to birth events) (1) homomers of A–A, (2) homomers of B–B and (3) heteromers of A–B. All these elementary molecular processes are reversible, meaning that A–A, B–B and A–B can separate into (equivalent to death) mers of (A, A), mers of (B, B) and mers of (A, B) respectively. The selected system in this letter has nine heteromers, nine homomers of A–A and three homomers of B–B.

Noting to mechanisms, the birth and death terms for homomers of A–A are $b_(A-A)=k_(A-A)^b(N_A)^2$ and $d_(A-A)=k_(A-A)^dN_(A-A)$, respectively. For homomers of B–B, the birth and death terms are $b_(B-B)=k_(B-B)^b(N_B)^2$ and $d_(B-B)=k_(B-B)^dN_(B-B)$, respectively. For heteromers of A–B, the birth and death terms are $b_(A-B)=k_(A-B)^bN_AN_B$ and $d_(A-B)=k_(A-B)^dN_(A-B)$, respectively. Here $Ni$ is the population of particle type i. The parameter $k$ is defined according to the transition state theory as $k=((k_B T)/(N_av h))exp⁡(-E/RT)$, where $kB$ is Boltzmann’s constant (1.38064852 × 10‒23 J.K‒1), $h$ is Planck’s constant (6.626069934 × 10‒34 J.s), $R$ is the universal gas constant (8.3144598 J.K‒1.mol‒1), $NAv$ is Avogadro constant (6.02214076 × 1023 mol‒1), and $T$ is the temperature in Kelvin. $E$ corresponds to the barrier/resistance associated to each particle, as listed in Appendix A. Each of these birth/deaths is associated with either an energy release as indicated by negative sign of de and be, or energy uptake as indicated by positive sign of de and be. An energy release increases the total (thermal) energy of the system while an energy uptake consumes out of that total energy. Therefore, energy balance is also considered to include the energy exchange, i.e., $E_t=E_0-∑(b^e+d^e)$ where $E_tis total energy in system at time t and E_0 initial total energy in system. 

These birth and death events may occur if particles are within an effective interaction range or cut-off distance of each other ($r_rxt$). Therefore, we allow particles to move according to Newton's equations of motion repulsively and interact dissipatedly through simpliﬁed force laws, using a dissipative particle dynamics formalis. The newton’s laws of motion is $(d r_i)/dt=v_i and $(m_i d v_i)/dt=f_i$ where $r_i$ is particles’ position, $v_i$ is velocity and $m_i$ is mass of particle $i$ as listed in Appendix A.  The total force acting on particle i, $f_i$ is defined as summation of (1) conservative force ($F_ij^C$), (2) dissipative force ($F_ij^D$) and (3) random intra-particle force exerted on the particle i by particle j ($F_ij^R$) i.e. $f_i=∑_(j≠i)(F_ij^C+F_ij^D+F_ij^R)$. The conservative force is given as $F_ij^C=a_ijω^Cr_ijr̂_ij$ in which $r_ij$ shows vector of direction (distance) of particle and $r̂_ij$ is the unit vector in direction of $r_ij$, $r̂_ij=(r_ij)/|r_ij|$. $ω^C$ is the weight function given as $ω^C=1-(r_ij)/(r_C)$ for $r_ij≤r_C$ and $ω^C=0$ for $r_ij>r_C$ where $r_C$ is effective interaction range or cut-off distance. $a_ij$ is the dissipative interaction parameter, or repulsive force parameter, that is used to address the strength of interactions between two particle of i and j which is correlated linearly to Flory–Huggins interaction parameter $χ_ij$ as $a_ij=α+βχ_ij$. Flory–Huggins interaction parameter can be calculated using methods as described elsewhere and the calculated results for each two particles of i and j is listed in Appendix A. The dissipative force is defined as $F_ij^D=-ζω^Dr_ij(v_ij . r̂_ij)r̂_ij$ in which ζ is dissipation coefﬁcient and $v_ij$ is relative velocity of particle i and j given as $v_ij=v_i-v_j$. The weight function $ω^D$ is related to $ω^C$ as $ω^C=√(ω^D)$. The random intra-particle force is given as $F_ij^R=(σ ω^R r_ij ξ r̂_ij)/√(Δt)$ where  is a randomly ﬂuctuating variable with stochastic properties and random force amplitude is controlled with σ which is given as $σ=√(2 k_B ξT)$ that $kB$ is Boltzmann constant, and $Δt$ shows time steps. The weight function $ω^R$ is the same as $ω^C$.  
